What is the Visitor Design Pattern?

In the Visitor Design Pattern, we use a Visitor object which changes the executing algorithm of an element object.
In this way, when the visitor varies, the execution algorithm of the element object can also vary.
As per the Visitor Design Pattern, the element object has to accept the visitor object so that the visitor object handles the operation on the element object.

The Visitor Design Pattern should be used when you have distinct and unrelated operations to perform across a structure of objects (element objects).
This avoids adding in code throughout your object structure that is better kept separate.

On the left-hand side, you have visitor objects.
On the right-hand side, you have the object structure.
The object structure can be a collection of type either Array, List, ArrayList, etc.
As you can see, the object structure (collection) can have multiple elements (i.e. Element 1, Element 2, Element 3 and Element 4).
Now if you want to perform some common operation on each element, then you need to use the visitor design pattern.
Here, the Visitor object will visit each element of the object structure and perform the common operation.

Real-Time Example of Visitor Design Pattern:

Here, we have a school and in school, lots of kids are studying.
One day the school management has decided to perform a health checkup for all the kids.
So, what the school management has done is they appointment one child specialist doctor.
What the doctor will do is, he will visit the school and check the health of each and every kid.
Once he has checked the health of each kid, then he provides the reports to the school management.

So, here in this example, the doctor is nothing but a visitor and the object structure is a collection of Kids where each kid is an element object.

In the same manner, one school bag sales company want to promote their school bag.
So, the company communicates with the school management and decided to give a school to each kid as a gift.
So, the company salesman visits the school and give school bag to each kid.
For better understanding please have a look at the following diagram.



